- [Instructor] When working with Swagger,
understanding the purpose of the OpenAPI Specification,
or OAS, can be one of the toughest concepts to grasp.
However, it's critical to your success,
because Swagger tooling is centered around
the OpenAPI specification.
I'm going to provide you with clear understanding
on why OAS exists, and its importance,
so that you can be successful with Swagger.
Here is how the OpenAPI specification
describes itself within its own documentation.
In a nutshell, OAS defines how we describe
the interface of a RESTful API,
regardless of the language in which it's built.
That's still a little abstract,
so let's dive a little deeper.
Here we see a rough description of a REST API interface.
A REST API interface exposes endpoints
or operations that clients can use
to access API resources.
So here we see an API with three endpoints
that expose operations on a single resource named product.
A client sends an http call
to invoke these operations on the API.
Some of the API endpoints may require the client
to provide data inputs in the request
to properly invoke the operation.
This is similar to how a method call
may require arguments to be supplied.
API endpoints can also send a response
containing data for the client to consume,
similar to how a method call can return an object.
The key takeaway is that clients need information
about the interface of the APIs they integrate with.
At a minimum, they must know the available endpoints,
what data to send to them,
and what data they will receive from them.
So we just saw a very simple API.
Let's imagine that your coworker needs to call the REST API
we just saw and they need your help.
How would you describe the API
or instruct them to call it?
Now let's look at it from another perspective.
Let's imagine that your coworker built the API,
and they need to tell you how to consume it.
How might they describe the API?
Let's say you both go with some metadata
to describe the API to facilitate
the other's interaction with it.
It's a nice approach, but there's some inconsistencies.
Because you haven't agreed upon a format
or standards for describing the APIs,
your definitions may be completely different.
Now, imagine if this API metadata
needed to be consumed programmatically by a nonhuman client.
How would it know how to consume each of these formats?
What if another format came along,
wouldn't that just add to the confusion?
This is where the OpenAPI Specification comes into play.
It provides us with a standard or rules
that can be used to build definition files
for an API so that both humans and computers
can discover and understand the capabilities of a service.
The API definition files conform to a standard,
so no matter what our API looks like,
it can be understood programmatically,
allowing tools to help both humans and computers
understand the API.
Building OAS compliant definition files
for APIs has many benefits for developers.
First, API definition files can be used
to generate documentation, API-related code,
or used for a bunch of other use cases like testing.
This alleviates a large portion of the work
for API developers, and allows them
to keep API documentation in sync with the implementation.
Second, because the generated documentation
provides examples, it is easier for consumers
to integrate with your API.
This results in a better developer experience,
and increases API usage.
Finally, strong API documentation supports
contract-first development,
allowing development teams to work independently
of each other because they have agreed
to a well-defined interface that governs
the interaction of systems and components.
So that's OAS in a nutshell,
and armed with this understanding,
we can be successful throughout the rest of the course.